---
title: "50+ Indian Entrepreneur Success Stories - rags to riches"
description: "These stories hopefully will inspire you through your startup journey and will
keep you motivated.   (these are not in any specific order or based on
specific criteria)
Below Mentioned are Indian Entrepreneurs who started with almost nothing in
hand and yet were able to make multi-million companies."
image: rags2riches.jpg
slug: "50-indians-from-rags-to-riches"
keywords: ""
weight: 1
categories: 
    - get-inspired
    - ""
date: 2018-07-05T 11:26:09-05:00
draft: false
---

**With the help of this post, we are sharing you the success stories of  Indian entrepreneurs** who successfully started with almost nothing.** **

**Success Stories of Entrepreneurs** which will inspire you.

These stories hopefully will inspire you through your startup journey and will
keep you motivated.   (these are not in any specific order or based on
specific criteria)

Below Mentioned are Indian Entrepreneurs who started with almost nothing in
hand and yet were able to make multi-million companies.

### **Sridhar Vembu**

CEO of [Zoho Corp.](https://www.crunchbase.com/company/zoho) (formerly
AdventNet Inc.), the company behind the Zoho suite of online applications.

He co-founded AdventNet in 1996, and has been CEO since 2000. AdventNet has
transformed itself from a modest beginning as a software company serving
network equipment vendors to a be an innovative online applications provider.

![success stories](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01
/sridhar-vembu-zoho.png)

It has maintained growth and profitability, without needing outside capital.
Prior to AdventNet, Sridhar worked as a wireless systems engineer at Qualcomm,
Inc. where he was fortunate to work with some of the leading minds in wireless
communications.

Sridhar Vembu's Zoho competes successfully around the world with some core
products of Microsoft, Google and Salesforce.com. Vembu shuns outside capital,
but if Zoho were to be valued, it might be well over **$1 billion.**

**He grew up in a very modest middle-class family in Chennai.** His father was a stenographer in the High Court. Neither his father nor his mother went to college. 

He went to a Tamil-medium, government-aided school till Std 10, and then he
did 11th and 12th in an English-medium government school.

He did well at school and he obtained his Bachelor's degree in Electrical
Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, and PhD in Electrical
Engineering from Princeton University.

### Dr.Arokiaswamy Velumani

Thyrocare's Velumani: Owns no car, lives in a small quarter, but helms a Rs
1,320-crore company.

Velumani doesn't own a car. He makes do with a small living quarters above his
large lab in Navi Mumbai, but still ends up sleeping in the lab most nights.

Born to a poor landless farmer in a nondescript and obscure village of
Appanickenpatti Padur in Tamil Nadu, Arokiaswamy Velumani found himself at the
bottom of the 'ten slices of the pyramid'.

![Dr.Arokiaswamy Velumani](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/Screen-Shot-2017-01-18-at-5.35.02-PM.png)

Velumani was so poor that he sought government subsidy to go through school
and college.

Today, he is the owner of the world's largest thyroid testing company, that
boasts of 1,122 outlets across India, Bangladesh, Nepal and the Middle East!

He started his career as a shift chemist at Gemini Capsules, a small
pharmaceutical company in Coimbatore, in 1979 and earned a measly sum of ₹150
every month. The curtains came down on the company three years later and
Velumani found himself without a job.

After 14 years of servitude at BARC, Velumani put in his papers. He decided to
channel his expertise in thryoid biochemistry to set up testing labs that
detected thryoid disorders. With Rs. 1,00,000 from his provident fund,
Velumani, at the age of 37, opened a shop in Byculla, South Mumbai.

Thyrocare is worth ₹3,377 crore ( on may 2016 ) and has made its debut on
Indian bourses! Velumani owns a 64% stake in the company, which makes him
worth ₹2,158 crore!

But it doesn't end there for Velumani and his team. Thyrocare is also working
towards developing a subsidiary to focus on cancer screening through molecular
imaging.

[**Read Full Journey here**](https://bizztor.com/in/dr-arokiaswamy-velumani/)

A mechanical engineer started in 1985, from a small room in his house with
just 20,000 which he had saved from his job with IOCL.

His first invention was in the field of petroleum conservation instrument
where he earned fame and half a dozen patents to his credit.

![](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/Mahesh-Gupta-
Chairman-Kent-RO-Systems.jpg)

His turning Point came with the establishment of KENT RO SYSTEM in the year
1998, when he charted out on a new enterprise after jaundice gripped his son
in a posh colony of South Delhi.

Knowing that jaundice is a water-borne disease, Gupta researched and analyzed
all the available water purifier in the market.

He was dissatisfied with available options and decided to make a better
quality purifier. After several trails, he made his own water purifier and
became confident that is product is good enough to be marketed. "Coming from
an engineering background, making my own water purifier was not difficult
task; all I needed to do was export the components. - Mahesh Gupta

The experiment turned into success. And then I thought to bring it out in
commercially in the market. I started from scratch with an investment of about
1 lac and four member team.

Today Kent has grown 40% market share in RO mineral and has turnover 580 crore
and 2,500 employees.

Born in a small village at Rahimatpur in Maharashtra, Kailash Katkar worked
his way to the top to be chairman and CEO of INR 200 Cr business. He is the
man behind Quickheal technologies Pvt Ltd.

![Kailash Katkar, Founder Quick Heal](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/Kailash-Katkar.png)

He started with a job at local radio and calculator repair shop and later went
ahead in 1990 to start his own calculator repair business.

In 1993 he started a new venture, CAT computer services where around that time
his younger brother Sanjay developed a basic model of antivirus software which
helped in solving the biggest problem of computer maintenance at that time.

Later in 2007 it was renamed as Quick Heal Technologies. He achieved all this
without any formal education.

### **P C Mustafa** ( Coolie's Son who Set Up 100 Crore Company with just
25,000 )

This is the story of a man who failed in Class 6, but went on to join the
Regional Engineering College (now the National Institute of Technology),
Calicut and the Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore.

![pc mustafa inspirational story](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/pc-mustafa.png)

This is the story of a man who decided to become an entrepreneur and employ
people from rural India.

Today, fresh _idli_ and _dosa_ batter made by P C Mustafa's company ID Fresh
reaches homes in Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Mangaluru
and even Dubai.

Today, we produce around 50,000 kg in our plant. The total investment must be
around Rs 4 crore (_Rs 40 million_) and our revenue is Rs 100 crore (_Rs 1
billion_).

When we became a Rs 100 crore company in October 2015, we celebrated in grand
scale. We have grown from producing 10 packets a day in 2005, with just my
cousin managing the kitchen, to 50,000 packets a day with 1,100 employees in
10 years.

[Full Story here](https://bizztor.com/in/coolies-son-set-up-100-crore-company-
with-just-25000/)

####  **Patricia Narayan**

She started her career 30 years ago as an entrepreneur, selling eateries from
a mobile cart on the Marina beach amidst all odds -- battling a failed
marriage, coping with her husband, a multiple addict, and taking care of two
kids.

Today, she has overcome the hurdles and owns a chain of restaurants.

" I started my business with just two people. Now, there are 200 people
working for me in my restaurants. My lifestyle has changed too. From
travelling in a cycle rickshaw, I moved to auto rickshaws and now I have my
own car. From 50 paise a day, my revenue has gone up to Rs 2 lakh a day.

![successful entrepreneurs in india](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/Patricia-Narayan.png)

The 'Ficci entrepreneur of the year' award is the culmination of all the hard
work I have put in over the last 30 years. It came as a surprise as this is
the first time I have received an award.

Till now, I had no time to think of what I was doing. But the award made me
look back and relive the days that passed by. Now, my ambition is to build my
Sandeepha brand."

Advice to young entrepreneurs  
Do not ever compromise on quality. Never lose your self-confidence. Believe in
yourself and the product you are making. Third, always stick to what you know.
When you employ people, you should know what you ask them to do.

[ Source [Quora](http://www.quora.com/) ]

### **Dhiru Bhai Ambani**

India's largest private sector company. Created an equity cult in the Indian
capital market.

Reliance is the first Indian company to feature in Forbes 500 list. Dhirubhai
Ambani was the most enterprising Indian entrepreneur.

His life journey is reminiscent of the rags to riches story. He is remembered
as the one who rewrote Indian corporate history and built a truly global
corporate group.

Dhirubhai Ambani alias Dhirajlal Hirachand Ambani was born on December 28,
1932, at Chorwad, Gujarat, into a Modh family. His father was a school
teacher. Dhirubhai Ambani started his entrepreneurial career by selling
"bhajias" to pilgrims in Mount Girnar over the weekends.

After doing his matriculation at the age of 16, Dhirubhai moved to Aden,
Yemen. He worked there as a gas-station attendant, and as a clerk in an oil
company. He returned to India in 1958 with Rs 50,000 and set up a textile
trading company.

In 1992, Reliance became the first Indian company to raise money in global
markets, its high credit-taking in international markets limited only by
India's sovereign rating. Reliance also became the first Indian company to
feature in Forbes 500 list.

Dhirubhai Ambani was named the Indian Entrepreneur of the 20th Century by the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). A poll
conducted by The Times of India in 2000 voted him "greatest creator of wealth
in the century".

Dhirubhai Ambani died on July 6, 2002, at Mumbai.

### **Karsanbhai Patel - Man behind NIRMA**

The 'Nirma' success story of how an Indian Entrepreneur took on the big MNCs
and rewrote the rules of business :

![successful entrepreneurs ](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/Karsanbhai-Patel.png)  
It was in 1969 that Dr. Karsanbhai Patel started Nirma and went on to create a
whole new segment in the Indian domestic detergent market.

During that time the domestic detergent market only had the premium segment
and there were very few companies , mainly the MNCs, which were into this
business.

Karsanbhai Patel used to make detergent powder in the backyard of his house in
Ahmedabad and then carry out door to door selling of his hand made product.

He gave a money back guarantee with every pack that was sold. Karsanbhai Patel
managed to offer his detergent powder for Rs. 3 per kg when the cheapest
detergent at that time was Rs.13 per kg and so he was able to successfully
target the middle and lower middle income segment.

Sabki Pasand Nirma!

Nirma became a huge success and all this was a result of Karsanbhai Patel's
entrepreneurial skills.

_The best case of - Give your consumer what he wants, when he wants, where he
wants and at the price he wants, selling will be done quite automatically.
This is the marketing 'mantra' of Nirma._

The company that was started in 1969 with just one man who used to deliver his
product from one house to the other,today employs around 14 thousand people
and has a turnover of more than $ 500 million.

In 2004 Nirma's annual sales were as high as 800000 tonnes.According to Forbes
in 2005 Karsanbhai Patel's net worth was $640 million and it's going to touch
the $1000 million mark soon.

### **Prem Ganapathy - The Dosawala**

Prem Ganapathy, was stranded at the bandra station,when the person
accompanying him left him and ran away. Prem had no local acquaintances or
knowledge of the language.

Out of pity, a fellow Tamilian guided him to a temple and appealed worshipers
to contribute money for his return ticket to Chennai.

![success stories ](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01
/Prem-Ganapathy.png)

Prem refused to go back and decided to work in Mumbai and started cleaning
utensils in a restaurant. He appealed to his owner, to let him become a waiter
as he was class 10 pass. The owner refused, because of regional politics and
Prem bided his time till a neighbor hood dosa restaurant opened and offered
him a job from a dishwasher to a tea boy.

Prem became a huge hit with the customers because of his excellent customer
service, initiatives and relationship and brought business Rs. 1000 daily
which was almost 3 times as compared to other tea boys. The life was good.

A customer made him an offer. He was planning to open a tea shop in Vashi in
Mumbai. He wanted Prem to be his 50 - 50 partner where the owner would invest
the money while Prem would run the shop. The shop started doing brisk business
when the owner became greedy.

It hurt him to share 50 % of the profit with Prem and he threw Prem out
replacing him with an employee.

Prem was made of a different material and he was never going to be defeated.
He took a small loan from his uncle and with his brother, opened his own tea
stall. Unfortunately the neighbourhood residents objected. He then started a
hand cart but that also did not work out.

**Read Also:** [How to become an Entrepreneur in India ](https://bizztor.com/in/how-to-become-an-entrepreneur-in-india/)

He found a spot and set up a south Indian stall. He did not know a thing about
dosas and idli but learnt by observation, trial and error. The dosa stall was
a huge hit and flourished during the 5 years from 1992-1997. But why was the
tiny dosa stall was was so successful in spite of competition from ubiquitous
eateries prevalent in Mumbai. According to Prem it was its hygiene, proper
appearances of the waiters and fresh ingredients which stood out as a
difference.

He saved a couple of lakhs of Rupees and instead of heading home he took the
biggest risk of his life and opened a new shop near Vashi station and named it
as Dosa Plaza. His Chinese plaza next to the Dosa Plaza flopped miserably and
was shut down in 3 months.

Undaunted, Prem realized some lessons from it. He applied those lessons in
making Chinese cuisine in his dosas which worked very well.

He got passionate and invented a variety of dosas with Chinese style like
American Chopsuey, Schezwan Dosa, Paneer chilly, Spring roll dosa etc. The 108
types of Dosas in his menu gets him a lot of publicity.

A chance encounter with a customer who was part of the team setting up a food
court in a mall in New Bombay advised him to take a stall at the food court
and again Prem was ready and willing to grow and expand. His vision was to
grow by better offerings and better customer service. He also went to ad
agencies to create the brand identity including the logo, brands, menu card,
waiters dress etc.

He started getting a lot of offers for franchising and had to find out the
meaning of franchising and its modus operandi. Dosa Plaza currently has 26
outlets and 5 of them are company owned. It has 150 employees and a turnover
of 5 crore. All the branches are connected and networked and there are
training managers and proper manuals to maintain standard and uniform product
and services.

_Merit is the only criteria; all the employees regardless of the caste or
region are treated equally. They are loyal and have grown with the company.
The original team of cooks which was the part of the first Dosa venture is
still with Prem. Currently he is also getting enquiries from US and Europe for
franchisees._

### **Jyothi Reddy**

EThis has been proved by Mrs. Jyothi Reddy with her spectacular travel from a
field laborer to the CEO of an organization in the US.

This is the true story of Ms. Jyothi Reddy who now owns a software company in
the United States of America and who has a great vision to change many lives
of women in rural India.

![successful entrepreneurs in india](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/Jyothi-Reddy.png)

_  
Jyothi was born in 1970 and she was the youngest among the five girl children
in a poor family in India. Due to her family's financial situation, she was
admitted into a welfare orphanage._ To get the admission, she had to become a
motherless child.

It was a heart breaking situation for Jyothi as she could not see her mother
during the days when she was in the orphanage. There was nobody to share her
happiness and sorrow.

Instead of getting down with the situation, Jyothi developed a strong will to
make her future bright. She promised herself to work towards creating a better
life for her.

She learned the way of dealing with life in a hard and practical manner. The
hardship taught her the value of life and made her think beyond the situation.

[Read Full story here](https://bizztor.com/in/farm-labourer-to-ceo-of-it-firm-
inspirational-story-of-jyothi-reddy/)

### **Ramesh Babu, the barber who owns a Rolls Royce**

Bangalore resident Ramesh Babu, is a star in his own league who runs the
business of cutting and styling hair. He is an ordinary businessman, with an
extraordinary wealth. He is a billionaire and owns a rent-a-car fleet of 67
alternative cars.

![entrepreneurs in india](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/Ramesh-Babu.png)

At the moment his fleet consists of around 200 cars, vans and mini-buses,
including imported vehicles--a Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost, Mercedes C, E and S
class and BMW 5, 6 and 7 series. He has a fleet of imported Mercedes vans and
Toyota mini-buses.

"This is more of a passion," he says. As for being a barber, "I will continue
to be one as long as my hands are healthy."

Amazingly, Ramesh charges Rs 75000 a day for the Rolls and his usual clients
are corporate bigwigs and visiting Bollywood and Tollywood stars.

[**Read Full Story Here**](https://bizztor.com/in/barber-to-billionaire-g
-ramesh-babu/)

### **Nitin Godse**

Godse hails from a poor family of a farmer based out of Akole village from
Ahmednagar district, where he recalls his father earning a meager monthly wage
of Rs. 400  
He worked hard and did graduation and later MBA course in 1994-96 from Pune
University.

![success stories of entrepreneurs](https://bizztor.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/sites/11/2017/01/success-stories-of-entrepreneurs.jpg)Nitin
laid the foundation of Excel Gas and Equipments Pvt Ltd on 31December, 1999.

Ranked as one of the top 5 companies, the company specialises in on-site
piping and tubing installations, subcontracting, supplying a variety of onsite
services like pipe and tube supply and fitting, on-site manual welding,
orbital welding, helium leak check, instruments supply and erection and such
others.

The turnover of the company is touching Rs 50 crores and the company has 200
employees on its own payroll.

Excel Gas plans to install 20 gas plants in 4-5 cities by 2016-17 with an
investment of Rs 100 crores.

_Hope you find this post about " successful Indian entrepreneurs who started
with nothing and then made an empire" useful and inspiring. if you have a
story like this please share with us via comments._
