---
title: "Inspiring Lessons From Famous Failures"
description: "These stories hopefully will inspire you through your startup journey and will
keep you motivated."
image: famous-failures.jpg
slug: "famous-failures"
keywords: ""
weight: 2
categories: 
    - get-inspired
    - ""
date: 2017-10-31T22:26:09-05:00
draft: false
---




The names are known, the faces are familiar and their stories are
inspirational. However, while we know who they are now, we ignore the failures
they went through to get to where they are today. From Oprah Winfrey to Henry
Ford, all these greats went through struggles to get to where they are now.
Here is looking at the struggles the people who changed the world went through
early on in their life.

**1\. Oprah Winfrey **

Before Oprah became the first Black female billionaire, she led a really hard
life. Her childhood was filled with struggles and heartache. Born to a working
class family (her mother was a daily wage worker and her father was a
construction worker,) Oprah not only lived in poverty, but was also abused at
the age of 9 and 13. To make matters worse, she ended up with an unfortunate
pregnancy at the age of 14. With her childhood bieng anything but glamorous,
Oprah fought hard and long to get to where she is right now. From getting
fired for being unfit for television to becoming one of the most inspirational
faces in the world, Oprah truly came a long way. Struggling through everything
life threw at her with grit and determination, Oprah's sturggles to success
are an inspiration to everyone!

**2\. Walt Disney **

It may have all started with a mouse on paper. However, did you know that
before his rise to success, Walt Disney failed not once, but several times? At
the age of 20. Disney was fired from his first because his editor thought he
lacked imagination and creativity. The first rejection did not stop him and he
went on to create Laugh O' Gram, a startup which went bankrupt months after
its inception. In fact, even after creating the now famous Mickey Mouse, Walt
could not find distributors for his seemingly unique product. It was only
until sound made its way into the world of cinema that Disney became the
sensational phenomanon it is today! If Disney gave up after the first
bankruptcy, the world would have been a very different place!

**3\. Henry Ford **

Henry Ford, the founder of Ford Motor Company, was more than just a successful
entrepreneur. While everyone knows what Ford is, not many know he failed two
times and filed for bankruptcy both those times! In 1989, Ford formed his
first company, the Detroit Automobile Company with backing from the famed
lumber baron, William H. Murphy. The company went bankrupt. His second attempt
was in 1901, when he formed the Henry Ford Company, which he ended up leaving
with only the rights to his name. This particular company was later renamed to
the Cadillac Automobile Company. However, it was Ford's third try, with the
Ford Motor Company which hit the proverbial nail on the head. The rest, as
they say, is history!

**4\. Colonel Sanders **

Yes, Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) is finger licking good. However, do you know
how many fingers went into making the chicken so delectable? Founded by
Colonel Sanders, the special chicken recipe was rejected a grand total of 1009
people! Before he broke the perfect chicken recipe, he tried his hand at every
odd job which hame his way. From being a fireman to being a tier salesman,
Sanders did it all. A broke and hungry Sanders came up with the idea of frying
chicken with the right sauces, a recipe created to perfection over time. He
set up his first Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) restaurant in 1952 and from then
onwards, the success rate was stupendous. In 1964, at 72 years, Sanders sold
the the company for $ 2 million dollars to a group of investors led by Jack C.
Massey and John Y. Brown Jr. He retained the rights to the Canadian franchises
and stayed on as a salaried goodwill ambassador to the company. They say a
happy tummy makes a happy person and Colonel Sanders rise to success proves
just this point!

**5\. Thomas Edison **

We know the story all too well. Edison tried over 10,000 times to get the idea
just right. His main focus? Inventing a commercially viable electric bulb
which would give people all over the world the power of light. From his
teachers to his peers, everyone thought Edison could not succeed with his
life. If he had given up at the young age of 5, the world really would be very
different.

The world is filled with wonderful inventions and creations. From tech related
products to electricity related inventions, these were only possible because
the inventors and the creators refused to give up their dream. If you think we
missed out on any great inventors or creators, please feel free to comment and
let us know!

![](https://i1.wp.com/www.startupstories.in/wp-
content/uploads/2018/07/ss.jpg?fit=740%2C274&ssl=1)

Do you know about the most read men's magazine which has been popular for more
than four decades? The sales for a single issue of this magazine hit seven
million by the early 1970s. Sounds familiar, right? Every other man was
holding a copy this magazine back then. Any guesses? We are speaking about the
most sold magazine of all times **Playboy**. Hugh Hefner and his remarkable
magazine Playboy solely changed the story of the adult entertainment industry
and became a multimillion dollar business endeavour that expanded to
incorporate television, web ventures, clubs and more. The magazine was a game
changer in the era of '70s where people were more conscious of what is being
displayed and what's not.

**Playboy's founding story**

Hugh Hefner, the founder of the epic magazine had first shown his interest in
publication at an early age. In high school he founded his school's newspaper
taking it as an opportunity, young Hefner illustrated his own comic book,
_School Daze_. Although he had a high IQ of 152, Hefner was never really
spirited about school, in general. However, after completing his schooling,
Hefner joined the United States Army. Later, he went on to attend classes at
the Chicago Art Institute. After two years at the Art Institute, Hefner
attended the University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana, where he obtained his
bachelor's degree in the year 1950. It was in the year 1952, Hefner started
working as a cartoonist for the famous _Esquire_ magazine. While working
there, he was turned down for a $ 5 raise, he took it to heart and decided to
quit his job at the publication. He went on to venture out on his own and the
rest we know is history! In 1953, Hefner founded Playboy magazine using his $
600 bucks and several thousand more he borrowed including $ 1,000 from his
mom.

**The rise and fall and rise of Playboy**

The first issue of Playboy published in December 1953. The magazine featured
nude photos of Marilyn Monroe and sold over 50,000 copies. As we all know,
controversial stuff sells fast! Playboy had its strategies right and by the
year 1958, the magazine's annual profit was $ 4 million and Hugh Incredible
Hefner had skyrocketed to fame. Over the years, apart from controversial
stuff, Playboy's publication of writers including Ray Bradbury, Ian Fleming,
Joseph Heller, Jack Kerouac and Margaret Atwood became famous overnight. Also,
Miles Davis was the magazine's first interview. Other interviews included
Fidel Castro, Frank Sinatra, Marlon Brando and the then presidential candidate
Jimmy Carter, who confided that he had _committed adultery_ in his heart. John
Lennon before dying had spoken to Playboy in 1980 as well. Playboy became
known for its sexually explicit content. By 1970, Hugh Hefner had gone from
beginning an entrepreneurial endeavour in his own home to being the founder of
a major corporation. The distribution of the magazine was extensively done and
copies were selling at rates of seven million copies per month. The year 1972
earned Hefner a twelve million dollar profit.

The magazine's monthly distribution was reaching new heights. Yes! An enormous
7 million issues were sold in 1971. By that time, nearly one quarter of
American young lads were buying or subscribing every month, according to a
source. However, post that, Playboy saw a downfall in the late '80s and the
franchise was struggling hard to reach out to the people. In the year 1994,
Hefner established the Playboy Jazz Film Festival, funded by _Playboy_. The
festival was the first showcase on the West Coast for rare jazz films and was
free to the public. The franchise was slowly and steadily gaining its pace.
Nevertheless, Hefner's brainchild was back with a bang in the early 2000s with
the release of his reality television show on _E!. _The program _The Girls
Next Door_ portrayed the lives of his three blonde girlfriends at the Playboy
Mansion. The series was a super hit and doubled the popularity of Hefner
between the years 2005 to 2010.

In the year 2017, Hefner died in Los Angeles at the age of 91. At the time of
his death, Hefner's global brand had an estimated net worth of at least $ 110
million. As of now, Playboy earns most of its money by licensing the bunny
brand for a variety of products including liquor, clothing, fragrances,
jewellery and bath products.

Cooper Hefner, Hefner's son and the Chief Creative Officer of Playboy
Enterprises, said in a statement â€¦_my father lived an exceptional and
impactful life as a media and cultural pioneer and a leading voice behind some
of the most significant social and cultural movements of our time in
advocating free speech, civil rights and sexual freedom. He defined a
lifestyle and ethos that lie at the heart of the Playboy brand, one of the
most recognizable and enduring in history._

Watch the success story of Playboy here,

![Life Lessons From Tech Geek,Evan Spiegel Life Lessons,Startup
Stories,Startup News India,Latest Business News 2018,Inspiring
Stories,Snapchat Founder Evan Spiegel Success Story,Success Lessons From
Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel,Facts About Evan Spiegel,Evan Spiegel Inspiration
Story](https://i1.wp.com/www.startupstories.in/wp-
content/uploads/2018/06/ss-10.jpg?fit=740%2C274&ssl=1)

Evan Thomas Spiegel aka Evan Spiegel is the CEO and Co founder of the most
popular mobile application Snapchat. This tech geek is loved by everyone for
bringing up the most incredibly used photo sharing app. The smart and savvy
tech entrepreneur rebelled against the archived timelines of the other social
media platforms to allow users to communicate at the moment through temporary
pictures, video and text. As of now, there are 100 million active users
sharing 9,000 snaps per second. Huge, right? Evan shot to fame after
pioneering the idea of self deleting pictures on Snapchat. Evan Spiegel is
someone the young generation looks up to for inspiration. With an estimated
net worth of $ 2.1 billion, 26 year old Spiegel is the youngest billionaire in
the world.

Here are 5 life lessons to learn from Evan Spiegel!

**1\. Dare to be unique**

Do not be like everyone else. Dare to be unique and showcase your thing with
confidence! The talented lad Evan said _to have faith in yourself. Know that
you will be capable of all the growth expected of you and that you expect of
yourself. _Having faith in oneself and letting things happen makes you stand
out from the crowd. If you have an idea that is unique and different, do not
be afraid to showcase it!

As an entrepreneur, you need to believe in yourself and make things happen
with passion and dedication!

**2\. Follow your heart**

Evan Spiegel spoke at the University of Southern California's Marshall School
of Business where he was the chief guest. Spiegel called out students to
follow their heart and intuitions. He encouraged the people present at the
event to listen to their heart and follow that instead of relying on someone
else's advice. If you have an idea, go follow it! Put your soul and heart into
it to make it happen and see the stars following your path!

**3\. It's not about the Degree**

A degree doesn't matter as long as you are passionate about something that
could be implemented with immense dedication. Spiegel came up with the idea of
Snapchat while working on a class project as a student, at Stanford in 2010.
He initially named it _Picaboo_. With two of his fraternity brothers, Spiegel
left the college in 2012 to develop Snapchat before he completed his degree
and the rest we know is history! Evan unique Spiegel explained he too had
participated in his class' graduation ceremony, despite not receiving his
degree. He even wore the cap and gown and walked onto the stage.

**4\. Learn from your mistakes**

The inception of Snapchat took place with a mistake. Yes, we are not kidding!
Snapchat was also thought up in a college dorm room. The idea came after a
conversation with his frat brothers Reggie Brown and Bobby Murphy at Stanford
University about sexting. There was a confusion made by one of the Snapchat's
co founder Reggie Brown. He had stepped into Spiegel's room to discuss a photo
he wished he didn't send to someone. Brown had said _I wish there was an app
to send disappearing photos._ Spiegel immediately became animated and called
it a _million dollar idea_. Of course, he wasn't wrong. We now have the best
photo sharing app! Learning from your mistakes and using it as an opportunity
to focus on the better is a very important thing! Do not be afraid of making
mistakes, learn from them instead.

**5\. If at first, you don't succeed, try and try again**

It was then that Evan and his colleague developed the idea of Snapchat and
started working on its development. They named it Picaboo, which failed to
attract any investors' support. Basically, just because there were some flaws
in it. On top of that, the idea that why one would share an image that
disappears led to the downfall of the group. Spiegel once said _you are going
to make a lot of mistakes. I've already made a ton of them some of them very
publicly and it will feel terrible, but it will be okay. Just apologize as
quickly as you can and pray for forgiveness._

At the end of the day if you are passionate about something and work hard for
that you will ultimately achieve it.

![](https://i0.wp.com/www.startupstories.in/wp-content/uploads/2018/06
/kickstarter-logo-dark.png?fit=740%2C416&ssl=1)

The summer of 2009 was quite remarkable for Perry Chen, Yancey Stricker and
Charles Adler. It was that time of the year when their dream website
_Kickstarter_ was launched! Kickstarter is a New York based public benefit
corporation known for building a global crowdfunding platform. The company
brings creative projects to reality and is the go to platform for many
entrepreneurs! There ain't no middlemen, no loans and no grants. Sounds cool,
right?

The inception of Kickstarter!

Back in 2005, the mastermind Perry met Yancey Strickler and they became good
friends. In a friendly conversation, the duo started scribbling on a
whiteboard their exceptional thoughts with regard to a crowdfunding platform!
Later, Perry convinced his friends to give him a little bit of money. Months
later, Perry was introduced to Charles Adler and so the rest you know! The
three of the great minds started working on their ideas and turned it into a
website.

After years of research, they finally launched the website in 2009 which was
then flooded with tons of investors and projects.

Perry Chan, along with the American media editor, Yancey Stricker and American
Web designer, Charles Adler came up with the idea of launching a website for
the purpose of crowdfunding. Post the launch of their website, the founders
spread word about Kickstarter in their friends circle. However, projects
started coming in and people stepped up to support projects consequently. In
January 2010,  the team moved into a tenement building in the Lower East Side
of Manhattan. From 3,910 successful projects and $ 27,638,318 pledges in 2010,
the firm was reaching new heights already! This was followed by 18,109
successfully funded projects and $ 319,786,629 pledges in the year 2012. In
the year 2013 Perry stepped down from the position of the CEO and went on to
become the Chairman. He was replaced by Yancey Strickler. The year of 2014
brought the company a huge raising $ 13.28 million, which became the most
funded Kickstarter project in history!

Here's what makes Kickstarter so interesting!

Kickstarter does not rely on affluent investors. The company opts for
crowdfunding, in which loads of smaller investors make contributions. The
investment could be as little as a $ 1 and there are basically no
restrictions. The company generated its revenue by assessing a fee of 5
percent from projects that reached or surpassed their funding targets.
Projects that did not meet their funding goals within a specified time period
did not receive any money pledged to them, and they were not subjected to the
fee. The company so far has funded thousands of projects from investor
donations resulting in several hundred million dollars. Isn't that huge?

Kickstarter has become extremely important in the startup ecosystem! From
entrepreneurs to investors, Kickstarter is one damn platform that could get
you what you desire!
