---
title: "Guide to starting your online store for free"
description: "Learn how you can start making money online by selling things online without spending a penny"
slug: "start-your-ecommerce-store"
image: dropship.png
keywords: ""
weight: 2

categories: 
    - entrepreneurship
    - ""
date: 2018-01-31T22:26:09-05:00
draft: false
---


# How to Dropship From AliExpress in 2018 - AliExpress Dropshipping Guide

If you've been thinking about learning how to dropship with AliExpress then
you've come to the right place. Whether you're just starting out with
ecommerce or are a seasoned veteran looking switch up your business model,
we've created the ultimate guide to both AliExpress dropshipping and
AliExpress premium shipping. Read it, and you'll be one step closer to
achieving dropshipping success.

If any of you have doubts that you can create a successful ecommerce business
with AliExpress dropshipping, I will change your mind in this guide. Oberlo
users now receive over 50,000 orders that equate to $1,400,000 in sales each
and every day. That's around $42,000,000 every month!

Without further delay, this is the ultimate guide to AliExpress dropshipping.

### The Ultimate Guide to Dropshipping

If you're looking to become an ecommerce entrepreneur, dropshipping is the
easiest way for to start your online business. As you do your research you'll
likely come across  AliExpress dropshipping, in particular, and for a few good
reasons:

  * It doesn't require much capital. In fact, I wrote a guide on [how to start an ecommerce business with $0.00](https://www.shopify.com/blog/117806725-how-to-launch-an-online-store-with-no-cash-investment?ref=studio4). 
  * You don't need a physical store. Since we're talking about ecommerce here, you can run a successful AliExpress dropshipping business from anywhere in the world. With dropshipping, you also don't even have to stock any of the inventory yourself.
  * Everything you need to learn is available for free online. You can use the vast number of articles, videos, and other educational material to learn on the go and achieve ecommerce success.

### **AliExpress Dropshipping: Why You Should Try It**

Let's say you've decided you want to start an ecommerce store. What are your
next steps? Most entrepreneurs try to come up with a product idea, look for
suppliers, pay for the products and get them into your real-world store. Then,
once you receive your merchandise, you'll try hard to sell them.

The problem is you don't really know what will sell well or if you will be
able to sell the product at all. There's a lot of risk involved in this
traditional business model.

Here's an example:

  * Elena buys 100 units of a particular product line, paying $1,000 for them.
  * She only sells 10 products and brings in $200 in sales.
  * Elena quickly realizes that nobody likes her products and decides to close her store.
  * She experiences a loss of over $800.

In the above scenario, Elena invested $1,000 to open her store, but quickly
realized the product line she decided to sell is not popular or at least that
she simply doesn't know where to find the right people who would be interested
in that product. She only makes $200 in sales and is forced to close her store
with an $800 loss.

Alternatively, if she had tried dropshipping, she would have made $100 in
profit in spite of failing to pick the right products at first. Here's an
illustration of this scenario:

  * Elena uses dropshipping, so she doesn't buy products in advance;
  * She only manages to sell 10 products and brings in $200 in sales;
  * Elena orders the products from her suppliers and has them shipped directly to her customers;
  * She quickly realize that nobody likes these products and decides to try a different niche or product instead;
  * Elena is still happy because she just made $100 in profit.

That's how two very similar situations can bring very different results, with
the key difference being dropshipping. Of course, if everything went well, she
would have made $1,000 in profit in the first scenario. But don't forget that
people often overestimate their ability to create a successful ecommerce
business, especially if it's their first time. If you believe in numbers, more
than [50% of Shopify store-owners](https://www.quora.com/How-many-people-
really-succeed-on-Shopify) never receive a single order at all.

So here's the beauty of dropshipping. You don't have to buy a product before
selling it, so you don't spend your precious budget on stocking
[inventory](https://www.oberlo.com/ecommerce-wiki/inventory/).

You don't even have to take our word for it that this system really works at
little risk to you. You can read more about ecommerce entrepreneurs who use
AliExpress dropshipping successfully here: [The Huffington
Post](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tomas-laurinavicius/this-guy-made-12k-in-
one-_b_9867858.html), [The Next
Web](http://thenextweb.com/entrepreneur/2016/07/05/guys-e-commerce-store-went-
zero-100k-3-months-discussion-facebook/), [Forbes](http://www.forbes.com/sites
/laura-inamedinova/2016/05/16/how-to-launch-your-ecommerce-store-
in-a-day/#1e39c19ea183).

### How to Dropship With Aliexpress

AliExpress dropshipping is one of the most popular marketplaces for ecommerce
entrepreneurs using the dropshipping business model. You can import the
product content and images from AliExpress.com directly to your store,
choosing from millions of different items right at your fingertips. You'll
also have the freedom to set your prices and markups. The best part is that
after you sell a product, you purchase it from a supplier on AliExpress and
then have it shipped directly from their warehouse to your customer.
AliExpress dropshipping is simple, easy, and low risk for new ecommerce
entrepreneurs.

While we've already covered many of the benefits of dropshipping with
AliExpress, this process can still be a bit difficult to grasp. So, before we
go on, let's explore how it works step by step. To utilize AliExpress
dropshipping, first you'll set up your online store using a platform such a
Shopify. One you have your store set up, you're ready to start importing
products from the AliExpress Marketplace. Using an app like Oberlo can help
streamline and sync your imports from AliExpress with your Shopify storefront
by notifying you of any inventory or price changes from your supplier, and it
can aid you in sending tracking codes to your customers once their orders have
been dispatched. When a customer places an order with your store, you'll then
go to your supplier and order that exact same item to be shipped directly to
them. The infographic below offers a good visual representation of how
AliExpress dropshipping works.

![AliExpress dropshipping](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/dropshipping-model-01.png%20800w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/dropshipping-
model-01-300x243.png%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/dropshipping-
model-01-768x623.png%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/dropshipping-model-01-450x365.png%20450w)

### **FAQs About Aliexpress Dropshipping**

Now that this dropshipping guide has helped you understand the basics of
AliExpress dropshipping, you might still have unanswered questions. After all,
dropshipping isn't a traditional way of doing ecommerce, and there are
additional steps involved in the process.

I work at Oberlo, a software app that helps ecommerce entrepreneurs automate
their AliExpress dropshipping businesses. We receive hundreds of questions
from budding ecommerce entrepreneurs every day. Here are the three most
frequently asked questions we receive, along with the answers.

For a full list, check out this [article](https://www.oberlo.com/blog/why-you-
should-care-about-aliexpress-dropshipping/).

#### Will My Customers Know If the Products Are Dropshipped From Aliexpress?

Unlike other marketplaces (Amazon, eBay, Etsy), AliExpress has a very unique
infrastructure that is most conducive to dropshipping. I've talked with dozens
of suppliers using AliExpress. They all dropship, so you'll find many
suppliers who are reliable and familiar with this business model and their
role in it.

Oberlo users ship around 2.1 million orders and thousands of new merchants
sign up with us every month, demonstrating the growing popularity and
feasibility of dropshipping. While it can be a leap of faith to put your order
fulfillment in the hands of suppliers, rest assured that there are rarely any
promotions or invoices in the packages your customers receive. You can even
tell your supplier not to include any of these materials to be on the safe
side. In addition, you can even arrange for custom packaging and the
AliExpress premium shipping known as ePacket. Do keep in mind that the
packages your customer receives will have Chinese shipping labels.

#### Why Should Someone Buy From Me If They Can Buy the Same Product From
Aliexpress Cheaper?

This is an easy one: because you're better! You might be a superior marketer
who reaches potential customers first. Also, you might create a more
trustworthy brand that people feel safer buying from. In addition, you may
also provide extra services or content that builds a relationship with your
customer. Remember that the concept of merchants buying products from
suppliers for lower prices and stocking them in their stores long predates
dropshipping itself. Most stores in your own community likely do the same.

Regarding dropshipping, choose your battles wisely. There are strategies that
are more likely to set you apart from competition than others. For one, don't
try to compete on price you will never be the cheapest. Especially with lower-
priced products (&lt;$100), the price is not the determining factor at all.

Look at the same product on several popular websites such as Milanoo.com,
LightInTheBox.com, DHgate, and AliExpress. These companies are all multi-
million dollar businesses. Are these companies price competitive? No. Are they
out of business? No! Instead, focus on you marketing strategies and building
an awesome brand.

[![AliExpress dropshipping](https://www.oberlo.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/8370117f-0c6c-4ed2-8e1e-4aacb1bec2dc-1.gif)](http://www.oberlo.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/8370117f-0c6c-4ed2-8e1e-4aacb1bec2dc-1.gif)

#### Aliexpress Shipping Takes Too Long, My Customers Won't Wait. What Can I
Do About It?

That's just an assumption on your part, and I strongly suggest you test it.
You'll find that many customers are fine with waiting as long as you make the
shipping times apparent on your site so that they know what to expect. While
as mentioned above, you shouldn't look to compete in terms of pricing, it is
likely that you'll be able to offer a customers a pretty good deal on products
sourced from AliExpress dropshipping even with a markup. People are willing to
wait if it means attaining a discount.

Alibaba made over [$17.7
billion](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ywang/2016/11/11/alibaba-smashes-sales-
records-on-singles-day-hype/#6616ddd54b2e) in sales in one day. Customers of
other businesses listed in the price comparison example don't seem to be
concerned with long delivery terms either.

As an ecommerce entrepreneur, your task is to establish clear expectations,
define your shipping policy, and display it in the relevant areas of your
online store. Seeing that information, some people might leave your site, but
you'll be surprised how many people really don't care about that.

Another way to mitigate any distaste among customers over long shipping times
is to offer free shipping on all of your products. Often, this alone will
indicate to them that it'll likely take a little longer to receive their
product. You can account for the shipping costs in your product markups.

Moreover, with the AliExpress premium shipping [ePacket delivery
option](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EqOH9M2yVIE&t=1s), it takes only 7-14
days for most shipments to reach the US, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom
and multiple other countries with bustling economies. [We strongly recommend
opting for ePacket](https://www.oberlo.com/blog/what-is-epacket-delivery)
whenever possible. It's the perfect shipping option to help you achieve
ecommerce success and higher customer satisfaction when you're dropshipping
from AliExpress!

### How to Select Trustworthy Aliexpress Suppliers

With AliExpress dropshipping, you can easily lose control over the customer
experience because you never see the product since it's shipped directly from
your supplier's warehouse to your customer.

If you're trying to provide top-notch customer service, which is a must,
dropshipping could become a liability. Although AliExpress as a marketplace
handles improper suppliers as best as it can, we still suggest being very
careful when selecting your dropshipping suppliers.

Here are some top tips from our dropshipping guide on [how to select the best
suppliers](https://www.oberlo.com/blog/dropshipping-suppliers):

#### Don't Always Go for the Lowest Price

Here's an example of how the AliExpress dropshipping marketplace works:

A supplier called Original Hoodies starts selling a high-quality product named
"blue hoodie" at $40. Then, another supplier named Competitive Hoodies
manufactures the same hoodie but reduces its price to $15 by adding more
polyester instead of cotton.

When a merchant such as yourself searches for a blue hoodie, he sees two that
look the same, but one is selling for a lower price. In most cases, the
merchant will pick the cheaper one. The first supplier, Original Hoodies,
becomes unhappy with her sales and also replaces her "blue hoodie" cotton
materials with polyester and reduces the price to stay competitive.

While opting for the lowest priced product might seem like the obvious choice,
it's key to remember that this kind of competition can cause the quality of
marketplace products to go down. Suppliers try to be price competitive, and
each product usually has a number of very similar variations, often at
artificially reduced prices.

In short, the price on AliExpress.com goes down with the quality. If you're
trying to create a successful ecommerce business, then you'll need to research
and compare the prices offered from different suppliers. If a number of
sellers have similar prices on the same product, but one supplier has a
significantly lower price, this usually indicates that they have compromised
on the quality of the product.

[![AliExpress dropshipping](https://www.oberlo.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/product-prices-aliexpress.gif)](http://www.oberlo.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/product-prices-aliexpress.gif)

#### Buy From Suppliers That Have 95% and Higher Positive Feedback

A way to generally assess an AliExpress dropshipping supplier is through their
positive feedback ratings. The rating systems for products and sellers are
extremely important to every marketplace. Imagine you're walking through a
flea market, and someone shouts that the guy in next booth is a scammer. Would
you buy from him? Probably not.

The same applies to the virtual AliExpress marketplace. Listen to what other
merchants say about each supplier, and learn from that feedback. Essentially,
look for the highest-rated suppliers in order to identify the most reliable
ones.

Find the feedback ratings by navigating to a given supplier page on
AliExpress.com and clicking on the feedback tab. The scores listed here are
broken down as follows. The Feedback Score indicates the seller's sales
volume, while Positive Feedback represents the feedback rate the supplier has
received. When you're sourcing products for your store, you should always aim
for a 95% or higher in positive feedback and at least a 2,000 feedback score.
Also, don't forget to look at customer picture reviews.

[![scores-table](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/scores-
table.png%20591w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/scores-
table-218x300.png%20218w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/scores-table-450x621.png%20450w)](http://www.oberlo.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/scores-table.png)

#### Be Careful With Branded Products

Known luxury brands on AliExpress.com are very rare. You can't even search for
Versace or Chanel products because these search keywords are blocked. If you
notice a copyright infringement or a [counterfeit
item](https://www.oberlo.com/blog/avoid-counterfeit-goods-aliexpress) being
sold on AliExpress, you should report it
[here](https://rule.alibaba.com/rule/detail/2049.htm). This could include
items that are questionably similar in design to well-known brands or that
include logos resembling those of more established ones.

However, it's also important to note that not all branded products are fake.
AliExpress often organises partnership promotions with brands such as Lenovo
as well as others. Just remember to exercise caution, and use your best
judgment on this in order to avoid any problems.

[![AliExpress dropshipping](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/kenzo-fake-sweater.png%201258w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/kenzo-fake-sweater-
300x171.png%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/kenzo-
fake-sweater-768x438.png%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/kenzo-fake-sweater-
1024x584.png%201024w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/kenzo-fake-sweater-880x502.png%20880w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/kenzo-fake-sweater-
450x256.png%20450w)](http://www.oberlo.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/kenzo-
fake-sweater.png)

#### Pay Attention to the Responsiveness of the Supplier

To test this, you can even make up an urgent issue and message a supplier
about it to see how he or she responds. Things to take note of include the
supplier's response time and his or her command of English, along with the
supplier's ability to understand your problem and provide you with clear
information. If he or she just responds with a generic, meaningless message,
you can cross that supplier off your list.

After all, chances are good that at some point, you'll have a real situation
like the one you made up, and you'll want to know your supplier will handle it
correctly. When you're trying to create a successful ecommerce business with
AliExpress dropshipping, your suppliers are essential, so always choose
wisely.

[![AliExpress dropshipping](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/replies.png%20800w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/replies-300x220.png%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in
/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/replies-
768x564.png%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/replies-450x330.png%20450w)](http://www.oberlo.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/replies.png)

#### Look for ePacket Delivery (The Aliexpress Premium Shipping Option)

The delivery time associated with AliExpress dropshipping is a sensitive
topic, especially for new ecommerce entrepreneurs. It is true that this is a
common hurdle that most dropshipping ecommerce entrepreneurs must figure out
how to deal with. To do so, start by always keeping your eye out for
AliExpress dropshipping suppliers that can offer the best delivery options
possible for your ecommerce store.

As it is strikes the best balance between cheapness and speediness, ePacket,
also known as AliExpress Premium Shipping, is ideal. With ePacket, delivery
takes around 14 business days door-to-door and includes a tracking code, which
your customers can use to check for the location of their order.

[![AliExpress dropshipping ](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/epacket-delivery.png%201000w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/epacket-delivery-
300x180.png%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/epacket-delivery-768x461.png%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/epacket-delivery-
880x528.png%20880w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/epacket-delivery-450x270.png%20450w)](http://www.oberlo.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/epacket-delivery.png)

**Pro Tip:** Oberlo's [Free Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/oberlo-aliexpresscom-prod/hmanipjnbjnhoicdnooapcnfonebefel) offers a handy feature to identify products with the ePacket delivery option.

#### How to Dropship With Aliexpress: Order Samples

If you're trying to achieve ecommerce success, then you may want to make sure
that all of your products are as described online by ordering samples for
yourself. While this may seem like a perfectly logical ideal, I don't
recommend doing it. If you're importing 100+ products into your store it isn't
cost-effective to order each and every one of them to check for quality.

Instead, only order samples of products that you're going to use in your
advertising campaigns. Let's say you have two or three items on which you are
currently offering the best deals. You know they're great, so you plan to use
them in your Facebook or Instagram Ads to attract many visitors to your store.
Order samples of these ones for sure. Savvy ecommerce entrepreneurs would
order samples of these products to ensure that they are of the highest
quality. If your top selling products are of great quality it will speak
volumes about your store, and you'll be more likely to gain some valuable
[social proof](https://www.oberlo.com/blog/social-proof).

[![AliExpress dropshipping](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/unpacking.jpeg%20800w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/unpacking-300x169.jpeg%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in
/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/unpacking-
768x432.jpeg%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/unpacking-450x253.jpeg%20450w)](http://www.oberlo.com/wp-
content/uploads/2016/08/unpacking.jpeg)

Since you're only ordering a few items, pick the Express Delivery option and
receive them within a few days.

### How to Pick the Right Product to Sell

Picking the right products is a key aspect of understanding how to dropship
with AliExpress. One article is definitely not enough to answer this question.
Shopify went as far as [writing an entire book about
it](https://www.shopify.com/guides/what-to-sell?ref=studio4). We also created
this useful guide to [selecting products for your dropshipping
business](https://www.oberlo.com/blog/what-should-you-sell-online) to get you
started.

In the midst of all these in-depth materials, however, my approach is very
simple. I try to generate a huge list of product ideas and then cross out the
ones that aren't worth testing. Once that's done, I'm left with a few winners
to use in my ads, and then I add some other related products to my store to
give it a large enough selection that it looks natural.

#### Generating Product Ideas

Here are the top three sources I consult for finding product ideas:

  * Whether or not you realize it, your mind is already filled with great product ideas. Think about your own hobbies, products you like, and the trends you observe around you. Take some time to brainstorm, and write down everything that you can think of. At this stage in the process don't worry so much about whether you think a product will be a bestseller or not. Just add it to your list for now.
  * Also, be sure to check out other stores for inspiration. Glance through their offerings, best selling lists, and promoted products. The big online retail sites have tons of data to draw from, and they typically employ entire departments of people dedicated to picking their products and organizing sales. Use this information to your benefit as well. The following links are worth checking out on a regular basis: [AliExpress Most Popular Products](http://bestselling.aliexpress.com/en?spm=2114.40010308.1000001.2.597Tps) (Weekly), [Amazon Best Sellers](https://www.amazon.com/Best-Sellers/zgbs?ref=ali-importer-blog), [Ebay Daily Deals](http://www.ebay.com/rpp/globaldeals?ref=ali-importer-blog), [Lazada Top Sellers](http://www.lazada.com.my/highlights-top-sellers/?ref=ali-importer-blog), [LightInTheBox Top Sellers List](http://www.lightinthebox.com/c/featured-category1_37209).
  * Third, don't underestimate the power of social shopping sites such [Pinterest](https://www.pinterest.com/), [Polyvore](http://www.polyvore.com/), [Fancy](https://fancy.com/), and [Wanelo](https://wanelo.com/). These platforms feature hundreds of millions of different products. This might not be the first place you think to look for product ideas, but they are very valuable as social media in general becomes a more dynamic part of our lives. To get the most out of using these sites, create an account on each and subscribe to categories and lists of interest and keep an eye on trending product feeds. See if you can decide what people like the most and then add these items to your list.

#### Dropshipping Guide to Filtering Product Ideas

When you're satisfied with the length of your product list, it's time to
refine it down so it only contains the very best ideas.

  * Look for niche products that are not as readily available on mainstream ecommerce sites or in stores. This will help ensure that you create a successful ecommerce business with products that actually in demand. For instance, even if there is no specific market to pinpoint for selling a regular belt, you can easily draw the conclusion that cycling gear will be of interest among cycling enthusiasts. Find your niche!
  * There are a few different product categories that have grown to large proportions in the few years. Odds are a mixture of large scale marketplaces and smaller shops have already seized the opportunity to sell these products. To avoid markets that are already saturated, cross off the following categories from your idea list: jewelry, books, clothing, and electronics. At this stage in the ecommerce game, you'll need to be more specific in order to find a lucrative niche.
  * Now, let's talk product pricing. In my experience, the sweet spot for a price is between $40 to $60 (with a 200% markup). I arrived at this price range based on the fact that the lower the price, the better the conversion rate. Simultaneously, the higher the price, the more customer support you will be expected to offer.
  * Scan through your product ideas and enter each one as well as variations on its name into the [Google Keywords Analysis tool](http://adwords.google.com/keywordplanner). Select 'Keyword Ideas,' and check how many searches each Low Competition Keyword receives. When using Google Adwords or search engine optimization (SEO), though I personally suggest advertising with Facebook and Instagram, avoid product categories that have little or no search traffic. The key is striking the right balance between keyword competition and search traffic. 
  * Next, go to [trends.google.com](https://www.google.com/trends/), search each of your product ideas, and look at the trends. Is the trend increasing or decreasing? Are there any other patterns worth noting? Where are the spikes occurring? Cross out products whose trends are fading as well as seasonal items.

After crossing off any ideas that don't prove to be worth testing, you'll be
left with a few potential winners. Now it's time to open a store, and try them
out! We're sure that you'll find success, especially after reading our guide
to AliExpress dropshipping.

#### A Few Product Ideas I Like

**Phone Grips**

![AliExpress dropshipping - phone grips](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2017/09/mobile-acc.jpg%20800w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2017/09/mobile-acc-300x60.jpg%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in
/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/mobile-acc-
768x154.jpg%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/mobile-
acc-450x90.jpg%20450w)We all know how fragile the screens of our precious
smartphones typically are. Therefore, it's not surprising that phone grips are
currently catching on like wildfire in the world of ecommerce. According to
[trends](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?q=phone%20grips), it's a
good time to incorporate these into your store's inventory.

**Magnetic Eyelashes**

![AliExpress dropshipping - magnetic eyelashes](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2017/09/eye-lashes.jpg%20800w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-
content/uploads/2017/09/eye-lashes-300x60.jpg%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in
/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/eye-lashes-
768x154.jpg%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/eye-
lashes-450x90.jpg%20450w)There's no product like magnetic eyelashes to serve
as a reminder that we live in exciting times! Who knows what they will think
up next? This item is very in right now, and [lots of people are searching the
web](https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?q=magnetic%20eyelashes) in order
to buy a set or two of their own.

**Fitness Bras and Leggings**

[![AliExpress dropshipping - how to dropship from
aliexpress](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-2F2Fcdn.sho
pify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FLeggings_product_photos.png%20800w,%
20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-2F2Fcdn.shopify
.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FLeggings_product_photos-
300x60.png%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-
2F2Fcdn.shopify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FLeggings_product_photos-
768x154.png%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-
2F2Fcdn.shopify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FLeggings_product_photos-
450x90.png%20450w)](http://www.oberlo.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-2F2
Fcdn.shopify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FLeggings_product_photos.png)

Fitness activities and clothing associated with them are both
[trendy](https://www.google.com/trends/explore#q=fitness%20leggings) areas to
explore as you come up with product ideas. Thanks to new technologies that
make sports more social, there is a massive social impact from Instagram and
apps like Endomondo or Nike+. It's a strong business idea for ecommerce
entrepreneurs.

**MEGIR Watches**

![AliExpress dropshipping](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/https-2F2Fcdn.shopify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FWatch_product_phot
os.png%201100w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-
2F2Fcdn.shopify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FWatch_product_photos-
300x60.png%20300w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-
2F2Fcdn.shopify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FWatch_product_photos-
768x154.png%20768w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-
2F2Fcdn.shopify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FWatch_product_photos-
1024x205.png%201024w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08
/https-2F2Fcdn.shopify
.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FWatch_product_photos-
880x176.png%20880w,%20https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/https-
2F2Fcdn.shopify.com2Fs2Ffiles2F12F00702F70322Ffiles2FWatch_product_photos-
450x90.png%20450w)

A top watch brand available via AliExpress dropshipping offers affordable
watches with a look of luxury, and they are well received all over the world.
You can find a number of great reviews on Youtube and
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/megir/) to prove the
quality.

At this point, you now have the basics for understanding how to dropship with
AliExpress, along with tried and true strategies for selecting products. This,
however, isn't the full story. There is one missing piece we have yet to
consider.

### The Key to Using AliExpress Successfully

I work at Oberlo, the company who created the aforementioned dropshipping
automation app. Before launching Oberlo, my brother and I were running a
standard dropshipping business and managed all our orders through email.
Needless to say, it was tedious! Weary of communicating with dozens of
different suppliers, we wondered why we didn't just add products to our online
store directly from the AliExpress marketplace. All the suppliers we were in
contact with sold their products there anyway, and we could avoid all the
hassle related to email communication, orders getting lost between Excel
files, and not having any way of ensuring our suppliers would fulfill the
orders.

So, we started adding items to our story directly from AliExpress and were
immediately impressed with the results. We soon had 2-3 full-time employees
manually placing orders on AliExpress, but even after making this change,
things still didn't feel quite as efficient as they could be. It was extremely
time consuming, and we had problems with selling products that turned out to
be out of stock.

My colleague was a developer, and we discussed how we could try building a
tool to automate the AliExpress dropshipping method to eliminate some of the
common errors and tedium associated with it. We had a working prototype within
a few weeks of that discussion, and once we began using it, everything started
falling into place.

Fast forward a few months, and we sold the successful ecommerce business to
our partners in China, which left us with the tool that made the business
possible. We launched it publicly in October, 2015 and now we call it Oberlo.

We're extremely happy to have helped thousands of entrepreneurs sell over
2,000,000 products through AliExpress dropshipping since then.

That's pretty much how AliExpress dropshipping got started. Oberlo is an
invaluable partner in your ecommerce journey because it was built by people
like you in order to power ecommerce businesses like yours.

If you plan on using AliExpress dropshipping as part of your business model,
we strongly recommend giving Oberlo a try. The app helps you to add hundreds
of products to your store, and ship your orders with just a few clicks. In
addition, you can track your order delivery information with ease. On top of
those great features you also get full support from our experienced customer
success managers.

[Try Oberlo for Free &gt;&gt;](https://apps.shopify.com/ali/?utm_source=oberlo
.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=what-is-aliexpress-dropshipping)

### Want to learn more?

Is there anything else you'd like to know more about and wish was included in
this article? Let us know in the comments below!

![Andrew Roach](https://www.oberlo.in/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/Screen-
Shot-2017-02-22-at-1.19.48-PM-100x100.png)

Andrew Roach is a Content Marketer at Oberlo. He is passionate about ecommerce
and creating insightful content to help entrepreneurs launch and grow their
businesses. You can connect with Andrew [here](https://www.linkedin.com/in
/roach-writes/).
